From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hanselman. It's a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologist is Scott Hanselman
hosted by Carl Franklin there's as
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number one
37. Recorded live Tuesday, November 11th, 2008.
Support for Hanselman it's just
provided by. Teleram already controls
the most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelbrik.com. Support
is also provided by.net developers
journal, the world's bleeding.net developer
magazine online at www dot
dot com. You miss
episodes got discusses with Richard Campbell.
The announcements made at the
2008 PDC in Los Angeles.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And I'm
here in Las Vegas. The
nation's armpit at dev connections,
not, not all of Las
Vegas, just the strip part.
And I'm at the Mandalay
Bay. And I'm talking with
Richard Campbell. How are you Richard
neon armpit. I would say
the nation's neon aren't. There
you go. That's actually it's
on the license plates. The
brightest light in the world
is here. It's at the
Luxor. It is really, really
bright. And he's a really
bright this year from space.
Actually, when I saw the
Luxor light, it wasn't like
amazed about it or trying
to figure out the engineering.
I wanted to know what
kind of permits they had
to file. That's like as
an engineer that my, my,
my first knee jerk reaction
was I was thinking about
amps and cable and just
how much power is actually
being wasted, doing that. It
just blown right back into
the sun. That's right now,
if it was done with
solar power and they just
returned it to winch from
whence, it came that would
it be impressed. You're okay
with that. But if it's
coal-fired, if the light that
comes out of coming from
the Hoover dam, that's bad,
it's still, it's a waste
of electricity. I mean, honestly,
this place is insane. Yeah.
But I mean, the good
news is both of us
are immune to gambling. So
we, we are not their
customers right off the bat,
but I don't think I'm
Las Vegas as customer. I
always tell people that like,
Hey, you're in Las Vegas,
aren't you having a great
time? So, well, I don't
drink, I don't gamble. I
don't cheat on my wife.
I have nothing to do
in this town. Even if
you didn't even eat excessively.
I mean, you, you, you
really don't qualify to be
here. Yeah. The two for
one buffet, just not so
much from, no, it really
hasn't, but that's not why.
I mean, the one thing,
the convention centers here are
outstanding. I mean, I'm tired
of the Mandalay. I've been
here a lot, but it's
hard to touch it in
terms of workable space. I
mean, it is a big
convention center and we have
great sessions here. Yeah. Now
I'm going to be going
and giving us a presentation
and a little bit for
dev connections and at about
half an hour, but a
couple of weeks ago I
was at PDC. And so
was I, and you were
as well. And we didn't,
we didn't get a chance
to hook up and do
a, do a show, which
is a shame. What did
you think of the announcements
that came out of PDC?
PDC was interesting. I mean,
it's not like PDCs Of
lore, right? The old PDCs.
It wasn't, there wasn't one
big message. I felt, I
mean, as you know, You
don't think this was the
cloud PDC, like that one
was the complice PDC and
the Net PTs and the
Longhorn PDC. I don't feel
like this was the cloud
PDC as much as I
think Microsoft really worked on
doing that, that certainly was
the keynote and so forth.
And it was nice to
see, I felt Ray Ozzie,
best keynote I've seen him
do yet. Really? I was
expecting to, I want him
to dance and say, developers,
developers. I want it. I'm
with you. I want to
show yet. Oh, I think
he needs to do better
still, but at least I
see some progress. Yeah. But
yeah. So I think there's
definitely shaped it that way,
but I saw people with
stronger reactions to surface with
strong reactions to Oslow, but
there was some really great
things at PDC. Azure was
not the only thing. Oh
yeah. That's a good point.
I mean, there was the
windows seven windows seven. I
mean touch multi-touch. Yep. The
multi-touch in general. I mean,
windows seven is very powerful
from that perspective of, I
think we're hungry for another
iOS. I think the focus
that we're seeing, like synopsis
a synopsis, you knocked it
out of the park really.
I mean, he is such
a pleasure to watch. And
I also know him he's
deeply immersed in this whole
window, seven thing as well.
And I think the vision
we're seeing around windows seven
is resonating with, with the,
the digerati so to say,
Well, what do you think?
I mean, it doesn't, it's
not a revolution. Nope. It's
I think it's there. And
the refinements we desperately need.
Have you been playing with
windows seven? Has that been
running on two different machines?
I have not. I wanted
on hardware and I haven't
been home. I haven't been
home. You're still on the
road. I'm still on the
road and I'm on the
road for another three weeks.
Oh, that's obscene. I have
not been well, that's not
true. I haven't home. It's
not that I am at
home at all. I'm home
every weekend for about 24
to 36. Well, you know
what, Oprah and dr. Phil
say that you wouldn't be
doing it. If it wasn't
working for you. I really
enjoy being at conferences and
doing the talks and so
forth. I really, really do
enjoy that. I do try
and get home. I had
a great summer with my
family. This is my job.
It's I do derive a
lot of pleasure from it.
So I, I, I think
that's a very good excuse
for not obsessively installing every
windows 17, you know, build
Like I am. Yeah. Well,
and I do, I definitely
want one, but I'm willing
to wait. You know, I
though I'll pick the version
that makes me happy and
I'll run with it for
a while. I have enough
hardware to afford, to have
a machine that's cranky or
troubled. And if it's really
compelling, I'll use it everywhere.
I certainly was an early
adopter of Vista for the
same reason I could make
it work. Well, I haven't
put my main machine on
windows seven yet. They're not
quite at that point because
I feel that it's nothing.
But man, it is a
joy. It's, it's a refinement
I was expecting to be
blown away. You know, I
want an operating system to
walk up and just slap
me in the face and
call me Sally. And you
know, this isn't that, that
operating system, right? Like windows
95 was the first time
that that happened. Right. And
then XP was the second
time. And Vista was kind
of a light sleeper. He
was a refinement to XP
was a refinement of 2000.
It was the stability. Yeah.
Windows only ran for a
day. Yeah, it was crazy.
But 2000 was the breakthrough,
but it wasn't compelling to
a lot of people because
it was still very ish.
I mean, for Harvard geese,
like me, it was revolutionary.
I still have 2000 servers.
I can't give up. Well,
it's actually, you know, the
thing about Vista that's impressed
me the most is been
64 Bit fists. Oh yeah.
I mean the stability, This
laptop hasn't been rebooted in,
you know, I don't know
how long you just it's
just suspended, suspended. It just
runs forever. But back to
windows seven, my initial reaction
when I installed, it was
like, right. It looks like
Vista. And then I started
poking around there's all these
little things that are gonna
make my dad's life easier.
Right? Like if you hit
the start menu and you
type in Ram just ran
or how much Ram, right.
You get an answer. Wow.
How much Ram does this
computer have? And you hit
enter and it brings up
system properties. Now system properties
already exists. Right. But it
happens to have the answer.
Sure. But instead of them,
instead of your dad calling
you and saying, how do
I find out how much
I click on my computer?
Yeah. So if, And I
don't know, transparent or glass
arrow or anything like that,
any word you can think
of to describe why are
these freakin windows? See-through you
get an answer, adjust the
transparency of windows and you
click on it and it
takes you to the stuff.
And there's like two or
300 of these little tasks
that are indexed and available
in the, the start menu.
And very much that natural
language thing has been integrated
in that. Yeah. Yeah. There's
dozens and dozens of cute.
So you've got 250 plus
tasks, times some number of
keywords, you know? So there's
many, many, many entry points
into this And there's always
the, the Microsoft way. I
mean, I know you, you
wax poetic about 95, but
95 had its issues. 98
was the good version. The
one that did everything I
was supposed to 2000 was
a breakthrough version. XP was
the compelling one. Yeah. That's
a good point. So Vista,
which is a big jump.
I mean, look at how
much, Oh, I see. There's
the jump. And then the
refinery, The ones that make
you happy are the one,
the refinements of the gel.
They should stay. And the
plea, this is what I'm
saying. This is what I'm
saying. Yeah. I think that's
a very good point. It's
it's all the things that
were irritating about Vista, right?
Just aren't there anymore. Yeah.
But, but cause they did
the hard work in Vista,
which was the new driver
model, the new graphics model,
all of the sort of
core things that ended up
being a little rough in
the end, the UAC UAC
is necessary. It is a
good technology. We need it.
It is rough in Vista
and it's refined in windows
too In windows seven or
at least the build, the
beta build that they gave
us a PDC. There's just
a slider bar. Right. How
often and how irritating do
you want me to be?
You know how parent, it's
a paranoid, it's a paranoid
knob. Right? Exactly. So That's
good. We need that. Right.
We need that adjustability. But
first we need an infrastructure
place to stop the apps,
Destroying your machine. You know,
one other nice thing about
the seven was that I
immediately went off to download
stuff. Like I was like,
okay, I need to burn
an ISO image. I'm running
windows seven. I'll go download
my favorite ISO burner. And
I noticed that the ISO
had its own new, special
icon. Oh. So I double
click on it. I and
pops up. They have an
ISO burner built Hilton. Thank
you. Double click on it
and hit burn. So that's
just one example. I was
like,  should be one
more utility. I don't need
to be concerned. I mean,
I want the stack of
stuff I install before I
do anything on this machine
to be zero. Yeah. Right.
I just want this stuff.
Exactly. A word word pad
looks creepily. Like We're 2000.
Yes. It has open XML
support. So you can save
as an O O O
O F XML file or
whatever, but basically it's office
XML and you can open
that and, and other applications
like open office or whatever.
I mean it's a real
little word processor. Yeah. It's
like works. Yeah. It is.
It's like the shipping works.
We could miss notepad. Is
that what you're saying? Oh,
I like notepad. Oh your
notepad too. Yeah. Well I
went back and forth. I'm
using an editor called the
E text editor that E
okay. It's it takes some
serious stones to come out
with a piece of shareware
that's called E just try
your, like when you go
and Google for it, you're
actually competing with the letter
E and you know, E
for electron E for energy.
You know what I mean?
So to show up in
the first page at all
is a feat, but no
it's called E text editor
and it's basically text mate
the Mac text mate, right.
For windows. Okay. So I'm
using that one more and
more. So let me see
what else came out of
PDC, the multi-touch stuff. Did
you get a chance to
caress the HP touchscreen? Oh
yeah. And I love the
fact that they're going, they're
opening up to an SDK
now to third party developers.
So yeah. But it's No
seven is going to do
this as well. I mean,
we're just coming to recognize
that this is the new
UI element we want is
some kind of multi-touch solution.
Yeah. And when they're baking
it in, I got a
chance to talk to some
of the touch guys at
the booth there. And I
was like, well, how is
this going to cause I
was a developer. It's like,
okay, that's great. I can
touch it. How, how does
this look? I mean, they're
making it all the way
down. Of course they have
to at the winter to
two level. Right. So just
as there's, you know, WM
mouse move, they've got WM
touch, right? So these are
window messages for those folks
that are not surface plus.
So you can write, you
know, your hardcore unmanaged C
plus plus app that knows
lots and lots of information.
And then it will also
be exposed in WPF in
some really, really high level
way. Like for example, when
I poured it baby smashed
to the surface, I just
went from a key down
and mouse down to contact
down. You know, those will
become touch messages And come
all the way back up.
And I love the fact
that when you got it
onto the surface, I think
it was at Tim's party.
That was Tim Huckabee's party
actually for posts. I don't
know. I did a talk@pdconthisproductcalledbabysmashthatihavemaybesmash.com.
And I went to a
party at Tim Huckabee from
inner Knology who just happened
to have a surface in
his bag. Those things are
happened to Tim. This is
the kind of person Tim
is. Yeah. Yeah. There's the
PlayStation. Oh, there's the surface.
Yeah. Oh, here's here's the
original pinball machine from 19
four. Oh the surface. You
want to see the surface?
Yes. So yeah, I happened
to have the surface simulator
version of my baby smash
application on a thumb drive.
So I stuck it on
the thing. They loaded it
up and we had a
baby. We actually had her
baby. It was Clemons faster.
It's just someone's Vassar's baby
little baby got there. Got
right on top of the
surface and started smashing it.
It was beautiful. It's pretty
cool. Yeah. It was hilarious.
People have a visceral reaction
to touch. I have always
wanted to have that minority
report. You know, I want
to pick up a window
and I want to throw
it over To the other
monitor. I agree. I just
think that that vertical makes
no sense. It's tiring, actually
the wave, your arms around
like that. Try it for
15 minutes. I'm just stipulating
wildly now, but actually keep
your arms moving. And the
precision movements at that angle
that the horizontal position is
the right position. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman with a
word from our sponsor. Do
you know how to build
web 2.0 Ajax applications with
web 1.0 components? You really
can't. If you want to
do the next generation web
applications you'll need next generation
components. Just like the ones
that our friends at Telerik
have got their rad controls
for ESPN and Ajax. It's
a huge pack of web
controls built on top of
asp.net Ajax. That'll add previously
impossible performance interactivity to your
next project. The new controls
mirror, the Ajax API from
asp.net. So development is really
straightforward. The client scripture shared.
So loading time is not
a problem. If you just
set a couple of properties
and you'll be able to
automatically bind a web services
for a really efficient operation,
the new rad editor from
ESPN Ajax, Telerik loads up
to four times faster than
before. And the new rad
grid handles thousands of records
and just milliseconds, but as
always, it's best to try
for yourself. So you can
visit  dot com slash
ASP, net Ajax, and download
a trial. Thanks a lot.
You know what? I would
like, I would like a
surface that looked like a,
like a dinner tray that
you would like bring breakfast
in bed on. Absolutely. And
I would want to That
in front of me in
front of my monitor. So
The ha I would have
looked down, I'd see my
keyboard. And then in front
of my, and behind my
keyboard, Oh, moving away from
my body would be a
horizontal tray. And then going
up would be my monitor.
Well, it's when you start
thinking of the coffee table
being sort of a three
foot interface to the 10
foot vertical interface of the
television screen. There's interesting possibilities
there. Well, and there's a
lot of white space. There's
a lot of space there,
but that's just from between
the couch and the TV.
But I'm thinking from my
office desk to my office
monitor, right? If it's my
desktop, what if I could
literally pick something up off
of my vertical monitor and
bring it down onto that
surface piece, We can get
away from the whole projection.
The thing that needs to
be a table ended up
at the dad. Now it's
nice and flat. I need
a half by 11 page
sitting in front of your
keyboard. Yeah, exactly. An eight
and a half by 11
page or an a four
page, right. That I could
pick up. So I could,
I could take stuff, drag
it off of my window
and kind of stroke. It,
downloads that thing. And then
take that thing with me,
Right. Or drop your cell
phone onto it and load
it into the phone. I
mean, this, this whole dynamic
of the surface model of
communication, Actually, you know, speaking
of you know, the idea
of taking your phone and
putting it onto something, I
guess Sony just announced, I
forgot the name of it,
a new, not Bluetooth, but
a new wireless protocol where
you could basically, it's very,
very, very low power and
incredibly short range. It's a
little Really, it almost has
to be touching, but you
don't actually have to plug
it. Exactly. They're saying that
Bluetooth is too hard. Pairing
is too hard. The range
is too much power requirements
are too much, but what
if I could just take
my cell phone and just
put it on a plate
on my desk and leave
them all sitting there, then
things could transfer, but they
need to be within inches.
And you will find with
that as long as we
get the charging in that
too. Yes. Let's assume that
you have charging, but this
there's only thing is primarily
an issue of, of, of
data transfer. So then we
put those there. Then I
think about that in the
context of the live mesh.
So Sony is the hardware
in this case, live meshes
the idea of being synchronized
everywhere. It would be interesting
to just drop something into
a folder on my desktop.
And because my cell phone
was sitting on this pad,
it shows up there, showed
up there without any of
the hassle of, of pairing
and Bluetooth Tooth and sinking
and all of this because
the whole concern about Bluetooth
is security. And someone could
be just cause it's. So
it does too many things,
but there's Yeah. From a
security perspective, of course you
can put files there. It's
within an area Yes. Of
the proximity control. I mean,
folks have played with Bluetooth
where they're literally gunning a
mile. Right. You see the
Bluetooth rifle. So you have
to wonder any wireless technology
could be manipulated to extend
its range. How do we
keep that under control? So,
I mean, it's nice that
they've got it down to
an inch, but kind of
black hat come up with
an antenna that extends that.
Yeah. I mean, as a
security guy, of course you
have to take my utopia
and spoil it. I'm a
paranoid guy, man know just
cause you're not paranoid. Doesn't
mean they aren't out to
get you. That's true. I
still like the idea of
completely punting on the security
proximity concept by saying, Touching
has to be touching this
thing is if it could
put it down on a
surface and the physical contact
of that surface would be
the conduit, but I don't
want to discard the point
of the real reason I
plugged my phone in to
transfer data is to charge
the phone. So any solution
that transfers data must transfer
power And we need to
get into the whole wireless
power transfer That stuff exists.
We just got to commit
to a standard and start
building phones, But don't, they
waste ridiculous amounts of power.
Yeah. Now you've got a
whole other can of worms,
right? Because we were in
Vegas power, wasting land of
all. Yeah. It's power inefficient.
Even the contact ones. I've
seen the little plates and
they always say, and one
day you'll have a desk
that has all, but they
leak just obscene amounts of
power. These osmosis based systems.
I remember the smartwatch, the
Microsoft spot watch the spot.
It had an all kind
of an osmosis style thing
where you'd set it on.
You just set it on
its holder In power with
trends. That would be enough.
But yeah, It must've leaked
huge amounts of, I don't
know. I don't know enough
about power. Well, it's just,
Yeah, they're not, they're not
particularly efficient, but therein in
lies the essential problem with
all of these things. I
mean I'm far happier carrying
a phone that has a
mini USB plug in it
so that I don't have
a custom cable that I
can always plug it in.
That's my sink. That's my
charge that I'm having so
many cables. Well, that's why
I want a standard cable.
I mean the mini USB
makes me happy because I
can buy that cable anywhere.
Okay. I'll give you that.
So then we need to
start using a lot of
the power that we're already
generating. Like the idea that
I have a watch that
needs to be charged is
obscene. I'm walking outside, I'm
in the sun and I'm
shrinking my arms all day
long. You gotta be a
collective power. This is why
I can't stand Bluetooth headsets.
Besides the fact that I
just ended up leaving my
phone in my pocket and
getting brain cancer, testicular cancer
at the same time, that's
a separate issue. Charging the
bloody headset makes me mad
New phone coming out that
has a headset built in
that he talks in the
back of the phone. One
less thing to charge. One
less thing to charge. Yeah,
exactly. And I think we'll
see that where you can
slide the slide, the Bluetooth
out of the phone, or
it's hidden in the phone
somewhere. Well, and also then
you have it with you
too. You don't leave it
places and forget about it
and don't have the charging
cable and all of that.
Am I the only guy
who covers my mouth when
I'm talking on the phone
in public? No, there's a
few people who do it,
you know, who does that?
Carl Franklin does that. I can't,
I was talking to Jesse
Liberty today and I'm walking
on the elevator and you
know what I said, I'm
getting on an elevator. I'll
call you right back. Right.
So I get on the
elevator and there's three guys
in the elevator talking on
the phone. I'm just here
on the elevator with a
bunch of bunch of people,
you know, everybody say hi.
I don't think they can
hear me, but what is
that? So I'm, I'm now
at the point where I
don't have it with me
right now, but I have
a little jammer with a
push button on it. It'll
hang up every phone with
yeah. Jammer, 15 feet radius
around me. That's like those
little remote controls that only
do one thing. They turn
off. I've got the equivalent
for cell phones. That's brilliant.
Totally illegal. I must have
that. Yeah. I'll, I'll arrange
you if you're not one
that's fantastic. The phones I'll
disconnect. And the funny part
is, so what really, my
real experience with that is
I pushed that button and
everybody says, hello, can you
hear me all the same
time? Awesome. I need to
take that into movie theaters.
Cool. So, so what about
cloud computing? You didn't think
it was the cloud PVC?
Well, I think they want
Would just be the cloud
PDC, but I think the
question is how important is
cloud computing really? You know,
we talked about the core
of this technology, this whole,
you know, putting your data
remote in a data center,
that's owned by a third
party during the.com boom. And
the general reaction was my
data's where, That's the thing
that's so interesting when I
was working on, like, I
worked on eight hundred.com gear.com.
There was that big discussion
early on. Do we, as
a, as a company that
sells stuff, right. Have our
own data center. And they,
they not only built their
own data center, but they
kept them in the warehouse
and they did it like
donut style. So in this
giant abandoned warehouse in the
middle, they built this kind
of like MCP Tron thing
that was like in circled
in, in, you know, diamond
and crusted glass so that
anyone around the warehouse could
look into the center. But
the Four there is that
this data center is the
heart of your company. That
was the metaphor in the
late nineties, early two thousands.
But because the trust wasn't
there, no one could trust
an ISP to be up.
As, you know, nine, five
nines are always The internet
set up for five nines.
How can any remote data
center via profile? So was
it just a matter of
time? Did we just need
to build up trust? I
don't know that we have,
I just know that our
technology's advanced, you know, who's
actually using this stuff. I
run my host, my blog
at Orks web. Right. But
I know people who host
their blog at home on
the other side of their
cable modem collection connection, or
the other side of their,
you know, at some point
somebody is going to be
down. But for some reason,
they just don't want to
give that up. Well, Jeff
Atwood doesn't host on a,
on a physical piece of
hardware. Like I do. He
actually just has a VM.
So when he moved holsters,
he just shut, he shut
the VHD down and handed
it to another guy. And
so on one hand, the
cloud, the whole is your
platform. There is the VM
model and that's being used
in a lot of places
where it's just another way
to host in different places.
But the coding model is
much more challenging from a
sync, from an it perspective.
We're still getting back to
this whole issue of there.
I see two core audiences
here. One is the large
enterprise that is just not
prepared to come to commit
that massive infrastructure it's going
to take. They'd rather buy
by utilization and S and
get the geo distribution and
so forth. But now they're
dealing with their, the regulatory
requirements of somebody else has,
this is in control of
this stuff. They're dealing with
that sort of core competency,
you know, is this appropriate
for our business? Our shareholders
will be okay with that.
So forth. The other audience
to me is the little
guy, the little guy who
has nothing and is just
winging it. It created trying
to create the next flicker
or Twitter, or one of
the things. My question is
when the little guy becomes
big, will the cloud platform
grow with them. So for
example, Jeff runs his blog
on a single VHD, right?
Let's say his blog became
the most popular blog in
the universe, right. He, he
can't scale beyond that one
VHD, right. Or, I mean,
scaling, it is not going
to be a simple thing
to do, but yeah, Let's
just think about it simplistically
for a second, because it
is a reasonable, it is,
it is a good example.
He runs this little virtual
machine. He can put it
on bigger hardware, but ultimately
that VM has minimum, you
know, a amount of memory.
It's an atomic unit so
far, it's a VM. He
can't scale out. He can
only scale up, scale up,
add memory, add processes. He
has to redesign. If he's
going to go bigger and
say exactly now with this,
with this Azure platform and
platforms like it, like the
elastic cloud computing platform, you're
building to an API. So
you're building kind of, I
guess, more, I don't know
if the, if this metaphor
works anymore, you're, you're building
these smaller units. Maybe they're
electronics that works. I don't
know, but they're smaller. And
they don't know that they're
in a machine. They know
that they're in an environment
and theoretically they can scale
out as far as you
want it. So the question
will be what is the
first tiny startup that goes
with a platform like this?
And then It's a big,
yeah. And I don't think
it's happened in state. Well,
one example, at least on
the  side, which is
more storage based, not computing.
So it would be the
smug mug. Right, right. There,
I think are probably the
most popular, you know, web
2.0 startup that I can
think of that that really,
really, really depends on Amazon
for their, And with the
problems involved. I think the
other challenge around this, which
is one thing that didn't
come out of PDC was
the pricing model. This whole
thing can, the little guy
actually afford to use this
infrastructure and pay. He goes,
if you need to be
competitive, right. Yeah. It's going
to be very challenging because
I think those two different
audiences, that large scale system
and that, and the little
guy have very different pricing
tolerances. Like it's, it's going
to be interesting to see
if that actually works, but
you know, one of the
things that came out of
that whole discussion over and
over again, and I heard
this was, can I run
the Azure servers myself? I
don't want you, I want
my own cloud. Right. You
can have your cloud, Michael.
I want my own personal
cloud. Yeah. Yeah. And it's,
and I can see us
doing that maybe for development
purposes initially. But I actually
think that enterprises are going
to want to run in
that infrastructure It's clearly possible
because there is a developer
cloud, which is the cloud
you use when you develop
on your own machine, but
whether or not that's where
their will wants to take
them. I don't know. We'll
have to find them and
ask them. Yeah. Yeah. Well,
and whether, whether they're actually
going to do that. But
it's interesting to think that
way. I think we still
have this core issue of,
am I willing to do
this remote? And almost this
could be a bridge that
I start off running with
my own infrastructure. And then
as you know, peak loads
come in, my infrastructure is
hitting its limits that I
can start offloading this to
the external cloud. What if
Microsoft moved some of their
stuff, something important of theirs
into the cloud? Well, But
I also think that there's
energy around this. You know,
you look at the initial
story of Azure, as it's
told, which was really, they
collected up all of their
online products, the MSNs and,
and live and so forth
and said, well, a lot
of this stuff has stuff
in common. We should be
running a common infrastructure. I
do think that Microsoft should
be moving those products into
this infrastructure as proof, but
also because it's probably a
really good way to run
it. Yeah. That's a good
point. Duplication of effort. Yeah.
Why would we, I think
that's how they got there
in the first place was
this recognition of we're duplicating
effort all over the place.
Let's come up with a
common platform for it. That
helps us. That's a good
question. Amazon got here too.
You know, nobody really sat
down and said, Hey, let's
create cloud computing. It's really,
we're doing this ourselves. Why
don't we sell some? Yeah.
So the remainder, yeah. The
left, you know, to me,
I always made sense to
me that Amazon was selling
unused computing horsepower. They had
well, cause where they're saying
is that we've become so
good at doing our work
that we have this leftover.
We have leftovers, you can
have it for a fee.
And I think that's true
of Microsoft too. I mean,
they talk about Microsoft being
one of the largest purchasers
of computing power in the
world that really are good
at it. They're going to
move. I presuming they're moving
their stuff to this infrastructure
as well. And that's going
to help give everybody confidence
that they can do that.
But I still have this
sense that people want to
run their own cloud computing
servers. Hmm. You know, it
just, I think that will
be an interim step and
it'll help facilitate that larger
step if it's really going
to happen. Believe me, I'm
not convinced I'm a cynic
on all of this stuff.
You shouldn't be. It's healthy.
Absolutely. I, you know, I
have to still let it
mindset changes. Good. You go,
first change is good. You
go first. Yeah. Well, I'm
going to hunt down some
of these cloud computing guys
and see if I can
get some answers to the
very good questions that you
brought up. Thank you very
much. Richard Campbell for sitting down
with me today. Always a
pleasure, man. All right. This
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes and I'll see
you again next week.